.. _Add Content in the Course Outline:

************************************************
Add Content in the Course Outline
************************************************

.. tags:: educator, reference

You can add content in the course outline by creating a new section,
subsection, or unit, or by duplicating an existing unit, subsection, or section.

For information about adding content to a unit, see :ref:`What is a Component`.

  .. note::
    If you want to require an entrance exam for your course, you also create
    the exam in the course outline. Before you can create an exam, you must
    set your course to require an entrance exam in Studio. For more
    information, see :ref:`Require an Entrance Exam<require an entrance exam>`.


==========================================
Adding New Sections, Subsections, or Units
==========================================

* To add a section to the outline, select **New Section**. This option appears
  at both the top of the page and below the current sections in the outline.
  For more information, see :ref:`Create a Section`.

*  To add a subsection to the end of the section, expand the section and select
   **New Subsection**.

* To add a unit to the end of a subsection, expand the subsection and select
  **New Unit**. The :ref:`unit<Developing Course Units>` page opens.


======================================================
Duplicating Existing Sections, Subsections, or Units
======================================================

To add a section, subsection, or unit by duplicating content that already
exists in the course outline, select the **Duplicate** icon for the item that
you want to duplicate. You see a **Duplicating** indicator at the bottom of the Studio page.

Duplicated items are added to the course outline immediately below the
original item, with the name "Duplicate of <original item name>".

.. note:: Duplicated items inherit the release date of the item that they are
   duplicated from, but you must explicitly publish duplicated subsections and
   units before they are visible to learners. For more information about
   release statuses and visibility of sections to learners, see :ref:`Sections
   and Visibility to Learners`.

.. _Reorganize the Course Outline:

************************************************
Reorganize the Course Outline
************************************************

You can reorganize your course content by dragging and dropping sections,
subsections, and units to new locations in the outline.

You can reorganize components by dragging and dropping them within the same
unit, or by moving them from one unit to another unit. For more information,
see :ref:`Reorganizing Components`.

To drag a section, subsection, or unit to another position in the course
outline, move your cursor over the handle on the right of the object's box
until the cursor changes to a four-headed arrow. For example, in the image
below, the handle for the subsection Lesson 1 - Getting Started is selected.

.. image:: /_images/educator_how_tos/outline-drag-select.png
 :alt: A subsection handle selected to drag it.
 :width: 500

Then, select and drag the object to the location that you want.

If you expanded the section or subsection you are moving the object to, when
you move the object, a blue line indicates where the object will land when you
release the mouse button. For example, in the image below, the subsection
Lesson 1 - Getting Started is being moved to the end of the section
Introduction.

.. image:: /_images/educator_how_tos/outline-drag-new-location.png
 :alt: A subsection being dragged to a new section.
 :width: 500

If you did not expand the section or subsection you are moving the object to,
the outline of that section or subsection turns blue when you have moved the
object to a valid location. You can then release the mouse button. For example,
in the image below, the subsection Lesson 1 - Getting Started is being moved to
the collapsed section Introduction.

.. image:: /_images/educator_how_tos/outline-drag-new-location-collapsed.png
  :alt: A subsection being dragged to a new section.
  :width: 500

.. note:: When you move a subsection to a different section, the release date
  and time for that subsection does not change.

.. _Delete Content in the Course Outline:

************************************************
Delete Content in the Course Outline
************************************************

You delete sections, subsections, and units from the course outline.

.. warning::
 You cannot restore course content after you delete it. To ensure you do not
 delete content you may need later, you can move any unused content to a
 section in your course that you set to never release.

Select the **Delete** icon in the box for the object you want to delete.

.. image:: /_images/educator_how_tos/outline-delete.png
 :alt: The outline with Delete icons circled.
 :width: 500

You are prompted to confirm the deletion.

.. note::
 When you delete an object, all objects that it contains are deleted. For
 example, when you delete a subsection, all units in that subsection are
 deleted.

.. seealso::
 
 
 :ref:`Getting Started with Course Content Development` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Course Outline` (concept)
  
 :ref:`Creating a New Course in Studio <Creating a New Course>` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Create a Course` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Create the Course About Page` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Understanding a Course Outline <Understanding Your Course Outline>` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Developing Your Course Outline` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Modify Settings for Objects in the Course Outline` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Publish Content from the Course Outline` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Developing Course Sections` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Developing Course Subsections` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Create a Section` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Create a Subsection` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Hiding a Subsection from Learners <Hide a Subsection from Students>` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Add Course Metadata` (how-to)
 
 :ref:`Resources for Open edX Course Teams` (reference)
 
 :ref:`Resources for Open edX` (reference)
 
